What precisely do we mean by software engineering? What distinguishes “software engineering” from “programming” or “computer science”? 
And why would Google have a unique perspective to add to the corpus of previous software engineering literature written over the past 50 years? 
The terms “programming” and “software engineering” have been used interchangeably for quite some time in our industry, although each term has a different emphasis and different implications. 
University students tend to study computer science and get jobs writing code as “programmers.” 
“Software engineering,” however, sounds more serious, as if it implies the application of some theoretical knowledge to build something real and precise. 
Mechanical engineers, civil engineers, aeronautical engineers, and those in other engineering disciplines all practice engineering. 
They all work in the real world and use the application of their theoretical knowledge to create something real. 
Software engineers also create “something real,” though it is less tangible than the things other engineers create.
Unlike those more established engineering professions, current software engineering theory or practice is not nearly as rigorous. 
Aeronautical engineers must follow rigid guidelines and practices, because errors in their calculations can cause real damage; programming, on the whole, has traditionally not followed such rigorous practices. 
But, as software becomes more integrated into our lives, we must adopt and rely on more rigorous engineering methods. We hope this book helps others see a path toward more reliable software practices.



//Uma breve introdução sobre programação e engenharia de software, diz como engenharia de outras áreas como: Engenharia mecânica, aeronáutica e civl, são diferentes da engenharia de software.//



Programming Over Time
We propose that “software engineering” encompasses not just the act of writing code, but all of the tools and processes an organization uses to build and maintain that code over time. 
What practices can a software organization introduce that will best keep its code valuable over the long term? How can engineers make a codebase more sustainable and the software engineering discipline itself more rigorous? 
We don’t have fundamental answers to these questions, but we hope that Google’s collective experience over the past two decades illuminates possible paths toward finding those answers.
One key insight we share in this book is that software engineering can be thought of as “programming integrated over time.” 
What practices can we introduce to our code to make it sustainable—able to react to necessary change—over its life cycle, from conception to introduction to maintenance to deprecation?
The book emphasizes three fundamental principles that we feel software organizations should keep in mind when designing, architecting, and writing their code:
Time and Change
How code will need to adapt over the length of its life
Scale and Growth
How an organization will need to adapt as it evolves
Trade-offs and Costs
How an organization makes decisions, based on the lessons of Time and Change and Scale and Growth


//Questiona como engenheiros de software podem criar códigos mais sustentáveis// 



Trade-off
Trade-off é o nome que se da a decisão de 2 detrimentos, o famoso perde e ganha, abdicar de um para ampliar de outro.

Linux e Windows 
Enquanto Linux é um sistema operacional de código aberto e é gratuito para uso comercial e pessoal, o Windows é um sistema operacional proprietário e requer uma licença a ser paga pelo usuário.
Além da diferença de uso, outro diferença importante é a segurança. Linux é conhecido por sua segurança robusta e é menos vulnerável a ataques de vírus e malware em comparação com o Windows. 

Python e Java 
Java é uma linguagem de programação utilizada para desenvolver projetos complexos, já Python é utilizado para quem quer trabalhar como analista de dados ou automação de tarefas, tarefas mais simples.
Por esse mesmo motivo que Python geralmente é apresentado para iniciantes na programação, por ser uma linguagem mais simples.

Ios e Android 
O IOS, por exemplo, apresenta a segurança e design da interface, já o Android se destaca pela possibilidade quase infinita de personalização e recursos extras.
Outra característica importante que realça a diferença entre os dois softwares é a sua disponibilidade.
O Android é produzido pelo Google e está em vários modelos e marcas, enquanto a IOS é exclusiva para Iphone, visto que é fabricado pela própria Apple.
